HISTORY:


60 y.o. female who presents for with refractory focal epilepsy with seizures at age 2-12 with a period
of no seizures until age 27




Semiology

Type 1: Funny feeling, not well described, less than 1min, no post ictal. Frequency is inconsistent,
can go one week without event or it can happened 8-10x per day. This seizure type started in 1983,
used to be an aura for Type 2.


Type 2: Loses awareness without LOC, no convulsion. She may wander, stiffen, stare, speak without
making sense, lasts several minutes, also minimal post ictal. Frequency is 1-2 per month, started in
1983 as well.



Type 3: GTC type, rare. Last was in December 2015.






Current AEDs: Keppra 500mg AM/1000mg HS, Lamictal 200mg/150mg.

Previous AEDs: Zarontin, Dilantin, Gabapentin, Depakote, Ganaxolone (study drug), other study drugs
unknown





Epilepsy Risk factors: forceps delivery

EEG (7/5/16) Excess theta, disorganized

EEG (2/27/15) Left temporal sharp waves




MRI Brain (8/19/16) Findings suggestive of left anterior temporal lobe cortical dysplasia

with possible associated hippocampal atrophy.



Continuous video EEG is initiated for:  Recording of seizures for presurgical evaluation.



Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:

- The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant
mortality and morbidity risk.  Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best
treatment options.  If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual
mortality rate.



- Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while
medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures
causing injury or status epilepticus;


- The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to
provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;


- The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they
arise, including nurses to document patient's exam


There have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not
a "low risk" service



CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:

A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring.  The patient then
underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system.  Scalp electrodes were
placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system.
Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case.  Impedances were measured and verified to be
below 5 Kohms.  EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to
computer hard drive.  Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest
and reviewed in detail.





Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of
epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior.  For 24 hours each weekday (and 12-24
hours on weekend) the patient was attended by an EEG technician.  A neurologist was available in
person or on call 24 hours per day.  The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a
registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing.  During times when a
technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and
nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.







The  spike and seizure detection computer program was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal discharges.  Samples of EEG were recorded periodically.
Detections were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.  All events and detections, as well as
selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.





MEDICATIONS:

No current facility-administered medications for this visit.

No current outpatient prescriptions on file.


Facility-Administered Medications Ordered in Other Visits:

calcium-vitamin D 500 mg(1,250mg) -200 unit per tablet 1 tablet

lamoTRIgine (LAMICTAL) tablet 150 mg


levETIRAcetam (KEPPRA) tablet 500 mg

sodium chloride 0.9 % injection (flush) 10 mL

LORazepam (ATIVAN) injection 2 mg


enoxaparin (LOVENOX) injection 40 mg




SEDATION: None


DAY 1 (9/26/2016, 11:21AM - 9/27/2016, 08:00)



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the bilateral temporal regions during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


Frequent sharp waves are seen at F8/T4, T4 more than F7/T3, T3 mainly in sleep.





OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:

Seizure #1 CPS 09/26/2016 at 03:02PM Duration: 1 minute 8 seconds


EEG: About 10 seconds after clinical onset there is a F8/T4 delta then theta discharge that continues
to evolve and remains over the right temporal region with minimal spread to the left at the end.


Clinical: The patient pushes the button. Then appears to look around with left hand automatisms and
mouth movements. Testing reveal difficulty answering verbal questions but can answer one word
answers.


Right after the electrical seizure ends she follows commands.

HR: before:  72 bpm  during: 108bpm    After: 90bpm



SEIZURE #2 CPS: 09/26/2016 at 05:55PM Duration: 21 seconds

EEG: 10-12 seconds after clinical onset there is a beta frequency discharge maximal over the F8/T4
region that slows down to theta and suddenly stops. The discharge remains over the right temporal
region



Clinical: Patients looking for the push button but appears confused looking around. As the seizure
ends she finds the push button. Not tested.

HR: before: 60bpm during: 96bpm after: 66bpm



SEIZURE #3 CPS: 09/26/2016 at 06:45PM Duration: 17 seconds

EEG: 10-12 seconds after clinical onset there is a low amplitude theta frequency discharge maximal
over the F8/T4 region that slows down to delta and suddenly stops. The discharge remains over the
right temporal region.



Clinical: Patients looking for the push button but doesn't press it until after the electrical seizure ends.
Not tested.

HR: Unchanged




SEIZURE #4 CPS: 09/26/2016 at 07:26PM Duration: 30 seconds


EEG: There is a low amplitude delta frequency discharge maximal over the F8/T4 region that
increases increases in frequency to fast theta then slows down to delta and suddenly stops.The
discharge remains over the right temporal region



Clinical: Patients looking for the push button but appears confused looking around. After the
electrical seizure ends she finds the push button. Not tested.




HR: Unchanged



SEIZURE #5 CPS: 09/26/2016 at 08:04PM Duration: 1 minute 16 seconds

EEG: There is a low amplitude delta frequency discharge maximal over the F8/T4 region that
increases increases in frequency to fast theta then slows down to delta and suddenly stops.The
discharge remains over the right temporal region




Clinical: about 20 seconds after electrical onset (differs to previous seizures) pt presses the push
button and lays in bed, exhibits minimal automatism with the left hand and stares. She is asked
questions and appears to answer to of them.



HR: before: 60bpm during: 108bpm after: 66bpm




DAY 1 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

1. Five CPS seizures arising from the right temporal region.


2. Intermittent focal slowing in the bilateral temporal regions.


The seizures are consistent with localization related epilepsy arising from the right temporal region.
The focal slow waves are indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.

----------------------------------------------------------

DAY 2 (9/27/2016, 08:00AM - 9/28/2016, 11:00AM)



EEG BACKGROUND:

The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of
alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm
(PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.




During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior
dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.



Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.



Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the bilateral temporal regions during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:




Frequent sharp waves are seen at F8/T4, T4 more than F7/T3, T3 mainly in sleep.



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.


EVENTS:


Seizure #6 CPS 09/27/2016 at 09:26A M Duration:

EEG: There is a F7/T3 delta then theta discharge that continues to evolve and remains over the left
temporal region then stops after 25 seconds. The background then appears mild diffuse slow. Then
about 35 seconds later a nice high amplitude F7/T3 sharp theta discharge is seen which increases in
amplitude and slows down in frequency while spreading through the temporal region with some
spread to the right.





Clinical: About 6 seconds after electrical onset the patient pushes the button. Then appears to stay
calm in bed. Not tested for the first 25 seconds. Later the technician comes in and tests her and she
remains unresponsive. Suddenly  She start having right hand automatism and lip smacking, She
grabs the technicians hand and continues to have automatisms, her eyes turn to the left and at one
point her head turns to the left. She does not follow commands during the event.



HR: before:  90 during 108 after 90





DAY 2 IMPRESSION & CLINICAL CORRELATION:

1. One CPS seizures arising from the left temporal region.


2. Intermittent focal slowing in the bilateral temporal regions.


The seizures are consistent with localization related epilepsy arising from the left  temporal region.
The focal slow waves are indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.


----------------------------------------------------------


INDUCTION PROCEDURES:

None


SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:


Interictal Findings:

1. Frequent sharp waves are seen at F8/T4, T4 more than F7/T3, T3 mainly in sleep.



2. Intermittent focal slowing in the bilateral temporal regions.



Ictal Findings:

The patient had 6 clinical events while hooked up to continuous video EEG monitoring in the
epilepsy monitoring unit.


Five CPS seizures arising from the right temporal region.

One CPS seizures arising from the left temporal region.



SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:

1. Complex partial seizures



EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:

1. Localization related epilepsy arising from the bitemporal regions.



CONCLUSION:

was admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for 2 days with continuous video EEG.
The interictal EEG is characterized by frequent sharp waves are seen at right temporal more than left
temporal region mainly in sleep as well as intermittent focal slowing in the bilateral temporal
regions.  Frequent epileptiform discharges indicate a potentially epileptogenic focus in that region.



Focal slowing in the bitemporal region indicates a non-specific focal dysfunction in that region. No
medication changes were made during the hospitalization.


After this data is acquired she will be presented at surgical conference to discuss the possibility of
intracranial monitoring / electrocorticography as a next step in her surgical evaluation.



Patient is follow-up at the Temple Epilepsy Center as an outpatie
