HISTORY:

59 y.o. female with a history of childhood

epilepsy, colon cancer, obesity, and DVT presenting with


repetitive seizures and prolonged somnolence in the ED referred

for routine EEG for management of seizure exacerbation and

assessment of mental status change.




MEDICATIONS: Trileptal, Dilantin




SEDATION: None listed



TECHNIQUE:


A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a

NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and


included a single channel of EKG.






EEG BACKGROUND:


The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a


symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).



There are occasional disorganized bursts of sharply contoured

diffuse theta and delta frequencies.




The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and


amplitude is present.



During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and

fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse


background slowing are seen.




Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with

synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and

K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.




Mild generalized slowing is present.

There is abundant sharply contoured left temporal polymorphic


slowing.

There is abundant independent sharply contoured right temporal

polymorphic slowing.




EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Very frequent left temporal spikes (F7 > T3 max), activated by


sleep

2. Very frequent left fronto-temporal spikes (F7 > T3 > Fp1/F3

max), activated by sleep

3. Occasional right temporal spikes (F8 > T4 max), activated by


sleep; seen both independently of and synchronously with #2




OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None




ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.




EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during

this study.




HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.




IMPRESSION:

This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:

1. Mild generalized slowing


2. Abundant sharply contoured left temporal polymorphic slowing

3. Abundant independent sharply contoured right temporal


polymorphic slowing

4. Very frequent left temporal spikes (F7 > T3 max), activated by

sleep

5. Very frequent left fronto-temporal spikes (F7 > T3 > Fp1/F3


max), activated by sleep

6. Occasional right temporal spikes (F8 > T4 max), activated by


sleep; seen both independently of and synchronously with #2








CLINICAL CORRELATION:

These findings indicate the presence of multifocal epileptiform


discharges (left temporal and left fronto-temporal > right

temporal), superimposed on bitemporal dysfunction and mild

diffuse cerebral dysfunction.

There were no electrographic seizures captured during this study.


