HISTORY:

68 y.o. female with a history of seizures,

HTN, fibromyalgia, BPPV, witnessed walking around confused,


referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.


MEDICATIONS: Lamictal



SEDATION: None



TECHNIQUE:

A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the

International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a


NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and

included a single channel of EKG.



EEG BACKGROUND:




The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well

organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a


symmetric and reactive 10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).

The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and


amplitude is present.


Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.



No generalized slowing is present.

There is occasional subtle right temporal polymorphic slowing.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

1. Continuous left hemispheric (temporal predominant) rhythmic

delta activity at 1.5 Hz.


(Also known as temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity, or

TIRDA; also known as lateralized rhythmic delta activity, or


LRDA.)


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):

None



ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation


are not performed.



EVENTS:

There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during


this study.



HEART RATE:

A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION:


This is an abnormal awake only  routine EEG due to:

1. Occasional subtle right temporal polymorphic slowing


2. Continuous left hemispheric (temporal-predominant) rhythmic

slowing



CLINICAL CORRELATION:


Left temporal rhythmic slowing is often associated with temporal

interictal epileptiform discharges, and it has a high positive


predictive value for temporal lobe epilepsy.

Previous EEGs showed left temporal polymorphic slowing and left

temporal sharp waves.

The occasional subtle right temporal polymorphic slowing may


reflect right temporal dysfunction, or alternatively may

represent volume conduction from the continuous left temporal


lobe slowing.




























